-: Welcome back.
In this lecture,
we are going to understand about CodeBuild
on a very high level.
What is this CodeBuild service
and then how we are going to use it, right?
So CodeBuild is a fully managed build service in the cloud.
So it compiles of a source code, runs the unit tests
and then produces artifacts that are ready to deploy.
So it eliminates the need to provision,
manage and then scale our own build servers.
So it provides prepackaged build environments
for the most two popular programming languages
and build tools such as Apache, MATLAB and Java
and then many more.
So we can also customize build environments
in CodeBuild to use our own build tools.
So it scales automatically to meet the peak build requests.
So if you see here how to run the CodeBuild, right?
So if you want to run CodeBuild manually,
you can run it from management console
or you can run it from CLI
or from SD Case or CodePipeline.
So for in our case we are going
to run AWS CodeBuild using CodePipeline.
So that's what we are going to do.
So how CodeBuild works?
So let's see that now.
So if you are using the CodePipeline,
what happens on the overall story,
we are going to see that now.
So as a developer, you are going to check in the code
to your respective source code repository, right?
So what happens is like,
once the change is triggered inside the source code,
the CodePipeline will know that,
and then it will regard the pipeline operation.
So immediately, CodeBuild will trigger
and then take the latest source code version
from our source code called commit repository,
our GitHub repository or whatever is configured
as source code repository.
So from there and then we'll start the build process.
So during the build process,
so based on if build is failed,
if you want to send the notifications, right?
So it can send the notification
using Amazon notification service,
simple notification service, right?
So, and it also locks all the build locks
inside the CloudWatch during that process.
So in addition to that, it will have a build environment
which is a purely a Docker container environment.
Or we can configure our own,
we can build our own docker image and then use that
as our build environment, whatever we need.
Okay so we have options to use manager docker images
for build environments,
or custom build docker images also we can use here.
So once the build is completed, right?
So build logs are stored here and then notifications
are sent via SMS.
So once the build is completed,
it is going to store the artifacts inside the S3 buckets.
So our focus here is like,
we are not going to regard this build,
the CodeBuild using not CLI or not management console
or not Aztech.
We are going to do it with CodePipeline.
So we have seen the entire CodePipeline
on a high level flow,
how CodeBuild works in combination with CodePipeline.
So the next thing is the architecture,
so the CodeBuild architecture,
we are going to see on a very high level.
So this is the build environment,
so which we will have the manager images
and then our custom images,
we can push it too easy to container registry
or our images can be present in our dock hub,
but those images we can use to use
as our build environment inside the CodeBuild.
So that is a very, very good feature, right?
So if you have a already existing build process
in our organizations and then if you want to integrate
with CodeBuild, then get that respective container
or your manual build process converted
into your own container and then bring it here
and then start using it under CodeBuild.
So now, so this is the build environment.
The next thing is the source, right?
So CodeBuild supports its own,
means like cloud related AWS related code commit service.
So in addition to that
it also supports source as simple storage service
which is S3 and also it supports GitHub,
GitHub enterprise and even also the build bucket.
So the build artifacts, once the build is completed
it is going to store in the S3 buckets.
In addition to that build logs are stored
in CloudWatch and build notifications
are sent using simple notifications.
So what our CodeBuild steps on a very high level, right?
So as a developer I check in the code
to local get report and then push
the same code to code commit.
And so from CodeBuild if you want to run the build manually
so then you can reference that respect to code
commit version, whatever, whatever the source version
and then run your build,
and then it automatically stores the artifacts
in the simple storage service which is S3.
So now what we are going to do in our next step is
so we are going to review the build spec dot AML
and then CodeBuild environmental variables.
So for this entire build process to happen
there will be one important artifact which it needs,
how my CodeBuild process need to be defined,
how my build process need to be defined,
what should happen pre-build, means like
before build, or pre-build, what should happen
and before build also what commands it need to run.
And then during the build what commands it needs
to run, post build what commands it need to run.
So all those processes will be defined
inside a file called build spec dot yaml.
So we are going to understand about that build spec dot yaml
and in our use case in relation with the DevOps
what are those environmental variables,
we are going to pass,
all those things we are going to discuss now.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.